---
layout: post
title:  "did the dodgers win?"
date:   2024-08-18
description: 
categories: blog
---
[Here is my website’s link.](http://www.jonathanharper3.github.io/did-the-dodgers-win/)

A few years ago, I had a useless idea that took over my brain for a little while. I wanted to make a website called didthedodgerswin.com that would give you a ‘yes’ or ‘no’ answer as to whether the Dodgers won their most recent baseball game. Never mind the fact that you could type ‘dodgers game’ into Google to retrieve the same information with more details just as quickly. This would cut out the distractions and extra information of the internet.

Mostly, I wanted to do this because I wanted to figure out how to code. I was bored at work and deep into the “how to get a software engineering job” niche on Youtube. However, I didn’t really have any technical skills or background to lean on, so this seemingly simple idea turned out to be a little more difficult than I thought it would be. I asked a few friends for help, and some even entertained my enthusiasm, but free, up-to-date sports data is actually a little difficult to find, and we never really got anywhere with it. I forgot about the idea and moved on to other things.

I didn’t forget about my interest in coding, and over the past three years I learned a little about it. I still wouldn’t consider myself even intermediately competent, but I know how to import the pandas library. My job allows me to get a little bit technical, and while working on a project, I was reminded of this Dodgers idea. Thinking it still would be too difficult, I sat with the idea for a few weeks. Eventually, though, I found myself awake early one morning with nothing to do. I pulled out my laptop and began looking into the logistics of this project. Four hours later, I had a github webpage that updated daily with the most recent Dodgers game result. It was shocking to me! Three years earlier, I spent weeks cluelessly plucking at my keyboard. Now, with aid from my experience and the internet’s resources, I saw my exact vision filling my computer screen. I texted the link to a few of the people who worked with me before, and we celebrated the pointless little website.

I’m not sure if a lesson is to be learned from this or not. I’m really just excited to see this idea through. If I had to think about it, it would be to lean into the dumb things that get you enthusiastic. That enthusiasm can indirectly push you down the path you want to be on. I didn’t know what a library was when I came up with this idea, but because of it, I started learning how to use Python. That led to some internet courses which led to a graduate program which led to an analyst job that will hopefully lead to something more technical as time goes on. Maybe [willthedodgerswin.com is right around the corner. We’ll have to wait and see.

For those interested in how I built the website, here is a quick breakdown. I’m getting the most recent game’s result by scraping [baseball-reference.com](http://baseball-reference.com) using the beautiful soup library. This was the first resource I found out of many that I looked at that was free and could be scraped. I put together some HTML code that displays this information, and I have a .yml file that is used within a github actions workflow to automatically update the HTML file every day. The file is updated at 9 AM UTC, which equals 5 AM EST. I also had to create a secret token within Github to allow the workflow to run properly. Most of these logistics were figured out thanks to Chat GPT. My code can be found [here](https://github.com/jonathanharper3/did-the-dodgers-win).
