---
layout: post
title:  "michigan's 2023 football season"
date:   2024-04-17
description: http://howmanydayssinceosuhasbeatenmichigan.com/
categories: blog
---

I’d just walked into Gracie’s bar in Salt Lake City and looked right to see my friend Jade sitting at a table with a group of people in blue and white. We had heard that Michigan alumni in Salt Lake watch the football games at Gracie’s and this was our first time joining in. I sat down next to him and looked across the table to see a shirt with a nittany lion on it. Not a great start. Michigan was playing Penn State, and the old man across the table from me was, for today, rooting for my disappointment. One glance, and I realized that the entire room was. This wasn’t the watch party we had expected. The man across from me was nothing but nice despite my block M. He was a retiree who had grown up in rural Pennsylvania and spent his undergraduate years in State College. I went to Penn State on a recruiting trip in high school and told him how beautiful I thought the area was. A few moments later, Michigan gave us a reason to cheer, and we heard an uproar upstairs. Jade and I looked at each other, realizing at the same time that we were in the wrong room! On my way out, I told my new friend that I hoped he wouldn’t mourn too much that afternoon after losing to Michigan and their substitute coach. “Here we go” was his only response.

Watching Michigan games is never particularly fun for me or those around me. I’ll experience the full range of emotions throughout most games. Nervousness, dejection, elation, annoyance, enthusiasm, anger, relief, joy. My frustration heightened at Gracie’s during the second half once I realized the run game was non-explosive, and JJ McCarthy still wasn’t going to throw a pass for the rest of the game. The defense held, and I fully relaxed once a friend sent me a congratulatory text with about a minute left in the game. We sang the Victors on our way out the door. Coach Moore beat Penn State as the interim head coach, but I was hopeful that Coach Harbaugh would be back against Maryland the following Saturday.

Coach Harbaugh hadn’t been on the sideline for the Penn State game due to an allegedly elaborate sign stealing operation, and he was at that point suspended for the next two games against Maryland and Ohio State as well. The suspension came from the Big 10 after pressure from other member institutions, and it was my assumption that Michigan would use legalese and overturn the suspension during the following week. Coach Harbaugh reaffirmed this assumption during his weekly presser with the media and also added some quirk by bringing up how much he loved Judge Judy. Spirits were light. I figured he’d definitely be on the field. However, Michigan never fought the case. Coach Harbaugh accepted his suspension mid-week and sent me and many Michigan fans into a frenzy. Maybe we did cheat. New evidence had been hitting ESPN every hour for the past two weeks, and the narrative at that point looked pretty damning.

I had been optimistic about Michigan’s season up to that point. Most Michigan teams of the past would play to the level of their competition each week. Games against Northwestern and Indiana were annoyingly close, and I always rationalized it away. These teams played each other every year, of course they would know how to keep things close. Generally, it was foreshadowing issues yet to come. But Team 144 had dismantled their opponents each week. None besides Penn State were ranked, but I felt confident that this team could play anybody. They had “it.” The Coach Harbaugh suspension shook that confidence. I had seen this story before. Michigan would play their second game without Coach Harbaugh against a pesky Maryland program that was already bowl eligible and had an ace at QB. Their last game would be The Game. Ohio State was Ohio State. Winning one of these would be tough. Both of them? Oof.

My faith in the football team was shaky, sure. A Michigan fan knows the feeling. There’s a nervousness mixed in with the enthusiasm when things are going well. Michigan puts on a masterclass at finding a way to lose, and this scandal felt like the program’s crowning performance. Even the problem with the snap would take a back seat. I cheer for Michigan because they win. But they also lose a lot. And when they lose, I fall back on the many other reasons to cheer for Michigan. Because I was born there, because I graduated from there, because I love game days, because I can share it with my dad, because of my friends, because of the nights spent out in Ann Arbor, because Jordan Poole hit a buzzer beater in March, because because because. 

At the beginning of every home football game, James Earl Jones narrates a video that plays in the Big House. He says in this video, “This is the University of Michigan, where we respect integrity and honor excellence. We are loyal Wolverines standing for Midwestern values, hard work, determination, and an enthusiasm unknown to mankind.” These values characterize the Michigan Man, the type of man the university produces, the type of man I strive to be. I cheer for Michigan because they do things the right way. This sign stealing scandal wasn’t the right way and didn’t feel like the Michigan I knew or the Michigan I loved. It shook my identity. I expected this type of behavior from the schools down south. Those schools had warmer weather, lesser academic standards, stronger NIL collectives. Michigan’s path was the more difficult path. Success came from drudgery and perseverance, but it meant more as a result. When Michigan beat Ohio State in Ann Arbor in 2021, I cried tears of joy and counted it as one of the happiest moments of my life. Now, talking heads were questioning that victory’s validity. The only way to reaffirm almost three years of success was to finish the job. I felt confident it could happen but wasn’t sure if it would. Most of the fanbase felt similarly, I’m sure. There certainly was pressure on Team 144.

And Team 144 delivered. The final five games of the 2023-24 Michigan football season were a dream and gave me memories I’ll hold on to forever. I screamed, mostly with relief, when Rod Moore picked off Kyle McCord to seal the Ohio State game. I watched this in front of a small TV in the corner of Eskimo Joe’s in Stillwater, OK. We were there over Thanksgiving and had to beg a bartender to change a TV back to The Game so we could watch the final two minutes while every other screen had switched to the beginning of the Oklahoma State game playing live two blocks down the road. I paced throughout much of the Rose Bowl, and jumped, mostly due to disbelief, when Michigan stopped Alabama on fourth down in overtime and booked their tickets to Houston. These were emotions similar to when Michigan beat Ohio State in 2021. I had always hoped for them but never thought I’d see the day. My phone blew up after that game with congratulatory texts from people I hadn’t heard from since that 2021 Ohio State game. These texts, reserved exclusively for the “can’t believe it” moments, are one of the best parts about being a die hard. I didn’t get as many texts after the national championship game. It was a blow out in many ways and the expected outcome for many. My dad sent one during the trophy ceremony. “Harbaugh is weird.” Coach Harbaugh was spouting nonsense into the microphone while sporting a player’s Cartier glasses. I responded, “He’s a champion.”

In the post game press conference, Coach Harbaugh took a moment to speak about the off-the-field issues. “We’re innocent, and we stood strong and tall because we knew we were innocent.” I’m not sure this needed to be said, especially after watching how dominantly they’d played earlier that evening, but it felt like a closing statement. The world threw a lot at us this year. Did we deserve it? Nope. But we won the battle. Our football team is number one in the country. It’s all right here.
