---
layout: post
title:  "tennis interviews"
date:   2023-12-22
description: tennis Q&As
categories: blog
---
One of my professors at Michigan wrote a paper that analyzed the questions asked during question sessions in the UK parliament. The main purpose of this was to analyze the purpose behind our questions. Sometimes we ask questions to receive new information. Sometimes we ask questions to condescend. Some questions show agreement. Others contradict. This question asked in the UK parliament was probably asked with intent to start a riot:

“The Prime Minister is rightly shocked by the revelations that many food products contain 100% horse. Does he share my concern that, if tested, many of his answers may contain 100% bull?”

I don’t think it started a riot, but I also don’t imagine it was received favorably. People in the crowd probably oooo'd a little at the punchline. The intent of this particular “question” is clear to anyone listening to it. Understanding why someone asked a question can inform an answer and can determine the trajectory of a conversation. Inside the UK’s parliament, this can help build strong connections and improve a government’s function. Outside the UK parliament, in normal conversation, this understanding of intent can close a business deal, secure a second date, or build a lifelong friendship.

The researchers introduced an unsupervised framework that aided their analysis and findings. At the end of the paper, they noted the methodology wasn’t tied to any specific domain and could be used across other domains. Sweet! They suggested analyzing high pressure situations where interviewers can elicit substantive responses from influential political leaders to help hold elites accountable, which carries great merit. I chose to not do this and pivot towards sports instead.

I’m more familiar with the behavior of post-game sports reporters. Specifically, post-race track and field sports reporters. The reporter’s line of questioning is always pretty similar. They’ll ask athletes first what they thought about the race. The answer is more or less the same, regardless of who is answering, and it’s redundant, as most of us also watched the race and know what happened. Questions about training and goals and competition follow and then the journalist will thank the athlete for their time and wish them luck moving forward. Most of the time, these interviews are unhelpful.

Under unique circumstances, journalists will try to press an athlete. These types of interviews are oftentimes so uncomfortable to listen to. One of track’s biggest stars, Athing Mu, barely raced during the 2023 track season, presumably by choice. This frustrated the journalists that understood that Mu can be the face of the sport and build its popularity. That frustration manifested in interviews, which caused Mu to be more guarded. Likewise, when Alberto Salazar was suspended by USADA for doping violations, journalists antagonistically pressed Galen Rupp on his relationship with his longtime coach. Rupp gave short, vague answers and was typecast as a villain as a result. Once he hired a new coach, reporters started asking him more about that relationship, and he became noticeably more comfortable and open.

Both of these issues stem from the same problem. Interviewers are asking the wrong questions. By asking the wrong questions, they lose the chance to report properly on the sport. It’s hard to blame these reporters, though. The sport is very difficult to stay up-to-date with. There are only a few required competitions, 44 different disciplines, no league that governs an athlete’s competitive schedule, and very few organized teams. Someone can place in the top ten in their race at the national championship, the most prestigious event of the year, and a reporter will have no clue who they are. Because of this, the reporter’s questions become all the more critical. Understanding what types of questions elicit strong responses can help.

Asapsports.com houses textual interview data that can be analyzed to try and define good questions. The interview data that I’ll be compiling isn’t from track and field but tennis. Asapsports.com serves as a database for some running interviews, specifically marathon interviews, but this data is less structured and less sizable. There are thousands of tennis interviews, and each interview has a similar structure, so it’s easier to pull and clean all interview data with confidence. While this won’t be a perfect one-to-one comparison, it should provide enough context to be helpful.

Researchers from Cornell have also scraped this same tennis interview data and provided it in a different format. This is available through their ConvoKit toolkit. Their dataset, called tennis-corpus, was used for the paper: “Tie-breaker: Using language models to quantify gender bias in sports journalism” by Liye Fu, Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, and Lillian Lee. I chose to gather the data independently, as my purpose differs enough from theirs.

The scraping of the data is easy enough to follow. There are three layers to jump through before the actual interview data can be gathered. Once we are on the correct web page, the data is organized into three separate columns. One column includes the name of the interviewee, the second column includes the question that was asked, and the last column provides the interviewee’s answer. This is what an example question and answer format, as shown on asapsports.com, looks like: 

Q. It was fun to watch. How was it to play?
ANDRE AGASSI: Yeah, it was a good standard out there. I always enjoy playing Younes. He's frustrating at times, but overall there's a lot of tactics going on out there on the court. You know, so much does boil down to his serve because he can serve big and he can serve high percentages. It was so important today for me to take care of my own. So it felt very, very focused today.

The name column would show as ANDRE AGASSI, the question column would show as “It was fun to watch. How was it to play?”, and the answer column would show as “Yeah, it was a good standard out there. I always enjoy playing Younes. He's frustrating at times, but overall there's a lot of tactics going on out there on the court. You know, so much does boil down to his serve because he can serve big and he can serve high percentages. It was so important today for me to take care of my own. So it felt very, very focused today.”

Some of the text in the question and answer columns needed to be cleaned to remove unique characters like “Ã” or "©", html code like “</strong> or <p>, or additional text in parentheses that indicated facial expressions or movement. This was done through a regex function or a remove_characters function that was built within the code.

This code only gathers the data and does not yet focus on any of the questions above. That will be done separately. The code takes two to three hours to run, so I suggest exporting the data frame directly onto your machine or into a database that can be accessed directly. This will speed up any analysis done on the data.
